All right, so in the last lesson, we converted the employee interface into a class which is now a
super class of a class hierarchy and thereby making the programmer manager, CEO and analyst classes
subclasses now of the employee class.
And we did that so that we could reduce a lot of the duplication that existed in the programmer class.
We had the first name, last name, date of birth fields, and then we had a bunch of code that was
parsing data out of this person, text string using some regular expressions and things and then putting
them into those fields.
And now we can do all of that just in the super class.
So now in this lesson, we're just going to do the same refactoring surgery on the remaining classes
quickly.
So we'll jump over here into manager.
And so now let's see.
We can get rid of a number of things we can get rid of.
The people rejects the people pattern, the date, time, formatter and the money format.
And then we can also get rid of all of these first bits here because this is all now handled by the
super class.
So I'm going to simply delete these.
First, what is it?
Five lines of code inside of the constructor?
And I'm also going to get rid of this unnecessary closing curly brace.
And then I'm going to select all of this and unintended.
And then the very first thing we want to call now is super with and then passing the person text and
then closed that off so that we still call the code that we just got rid of.
Write that code that we just got rid of is in the super class, right?
So if I jump in, if I command, click on this word super.
In fact, it takes me to the constructor of of the employee class.
OK, so super just calls the constructor of the parent class or the super class.
OK.
All right.
Let's see.
What else are we missing?
And then I've got these unnecessary.
Well, we've got a few things here so we can get rid of the two string method here because that's already
being implemented in the super class.
So got rid of that.
And now I think we can just reorganize these imports with the control option.
Oh, so that just got rid of those unused import lines.
And I believe we're about done here.
I'm going to maybe get rid of that little empty space there.
Because I kind of wanted to see the entire class fit in one page view here.
And I think that's looking pretty good.
All right.
And then we'll jump over to the CEO class and do the exact same things again.
So let's see here.
I'm going to get rid of the people rag ax and the people pattern and the date time format and the money
form matter.
And in here, I'll do it a little bit different order.
This time I'm going to call super person text call all of that and then I'm going to get rid of all
of these lines down to the this idea.
Be because the super method call there is doing all of these lines now.
So I'm going to just delete all of that and I'm going to delete that unused closing curly brace.
And then I'm going to use those and then I'm going to select all of this and unimportant like so looking
pretty good.
And I'm going to get rid of the two string method here because it is being inherited anyway and then
clean up the imports with a control option, which is control alt, by the way, for Windows and Linux.
And that's looking really nice, really, really nice.
And finally, the analyst class, I'm going to do the same things again, get rid of the people rag
x people pattern date, time, format or no format, or I'm going to call super person text.
Then I'm going to get rid of all of these lines that are being handled by super down to the this that
Dobby and just do a command delete to get rid of all of that.
Come down here, get rid of this unused closing curly brace.
Select all of these lines here to undo.
Let them come down here.
Get rid of the two string method and its annotation, by the way, and I'll get rid of that unused,
empty line there.
And then finally get rid of these unused imports with a control option.
Oh, there we go.
All right, I think I am done with all of these refactoring.
So now let's see if I broke anything.
So I'm going to come over here to Maine and I'm just going to run it and see what happens.
And look at that, we still get 8.6 million.
So, yeah, I don't think we broke anything right?
And we shouldn't have really, because again, all we've really done is just to shuffle code around.
But well, we've done two things we've shuffled code around again, but by shuffling some of the duplicate
code that we had in those four subclasses all up into the superclass, now we don't need the duplication
anymore.
OK.
And so there are now actually fewer lines of code in the entire program because there's less duplication
now.
Right?
So let's just go take a look at the employee class one more time here.
So yeah, all of these bits here are all in common to the four subclasses.
Let's take another look at some of the subclasses one.
One last time to see so now what's left in these subclasses is ideally just the fields and code that
are unique to that particular subclass.
Right?
So programmers only care about lines of code, years of experience in IQ.
And so that's all we're seeing here.
And the programmer constructor is only concerned with what it takes to pass out the lines of code years
of experience in IQ and set those on its internal fields, right?
And so that's the main concern that you see here.
All of the other parts, like what it takes to parse out the first name, last name and date of birth.
That's common to all of the different employee subtypes, and therefore we just put all of that code
up into the employee superclass, right?
And we just handle it universally for all employee types.
And in order to benefit from that, the only thing we have to do is that all subclasses need to call
super to allow that to to happen now.
That is one thing that I kind of do wish Java could figure out a nice way to make this type of situation
more automatic, because it's easy to forget to call super here, especially since we have to pass in
something as well.
I wish there was a way that that could happen automatically, but I'm not aware of a way to do that.
So if you in your programming endeavors forget to call super and pass in whatever, then you're going
to have problems.
OK, so you've got to remember to do that when you do this type of hierarchical coding or whatever.
All right.
Now let's talk a little bit now that we've done this in a few ways, right?
We did it with an interface and now we're we're doing a few more changes with the superclass.
Let's talk about the pros and cons of the interface approach and the superclass or class hierarchy approach.
And well, maybe not so much of the pros and cons, but just let's let's compare and contrast, shall
we?
So the interface approach is what I would consider to be a lighter weight approach.
It makes a lot of sense to do in real life.
If each of your classes that you are applying the interface to don't have implementation details in
common with each other and also don't have any data, and the data in this case would be the fields
don't have any data in common with each other, OK?
So you could just do a pure interface approach if if all of the classes that you intend to have implement
that interface don't share any data and don't share any implementation details for the methods.
OK.
And by implementation details, I mean, like like this bit here, right?
That would be an implementation of the get salary method.
OK.
On the other hand, if your classes do share data and or implementation details, then you may very
well want to consider the possibility of introducing a super class.
Now I'm only saying you may want to consider it, especially though if you end up having a fair amount
of duplication of code, then you really should consider doing it because that duplication of code is
is a bad thing and it should generally be avoided, right?
And so that's what you really saw us doing here.
We recognize that the programmer, manager, CEO and analyst all had the first name, last name and
date of birth in common.
They also had here, let's jump into the employee class.
They all had a date time format or a number format, or the people rejects the people pattern.
Let's see.
And the people matter as well, right?
They were all using all of this.
Look at all of that.
That was being duplicated four times.
Just all of that.
And then all of this was being duplicated four times as well for each of the four subclasses, right?
So that's really, really bad.
And so this was a fairly nice scenario in which to introduce a super class so that we could not just
to do it for the fun of it so that I could teach object orientation, but for a real reason, which
was to get rid of a ton of terrible, duplicated code.
Right.
That should be your your ultimate reasoning, by the way, to clean up your code, simplify it.
Get rid of duplication.
OK.
Not just to have fun with object orientation.
I mean, while you're learning.
Sure.
Have fun with it.
But in real life, we want to use these techniques for practical reasons, and that is to simplify the
code in various ways.
Now I want to talk to you about another concept with this Java object orientation.
If we go.
Who one of these subclasses, like the programmer here, you see that our programmer is extending employee.
Now one thing about object orientation and class hierarchies in Java, specifically in the Java language,
is the fact that a Java class can only extend one class.
OK.
So if I had other classes, I could not, for example, put a comma here and then say other class two
and other class three and so on and so forth.
I can't do that in Java, so Java does not allow for what is called multiple inheritance.
OK.
It only allows for single inheritance.
And the reason for that is because the creators of the Java programming language were very familiar
with other object oriented languages that did allow for multiple inheritance.
And they were very familiar with some of the headaches that can occur when you have multiple inheritance.
One, for example, would be what if two or more of these classes have the same method declared on them,
like get salary, then which gets salaries should actually get called on the programmer class.
If the programmer is inheriting a get salary from two or more of these classes, right, things like
that that are messy and not fun to have to deal with, the creators of Java just said, You know what?
It doesn't bring enough value to overcome all the pain that can stem from things like that.
So let's just not do it.
But what they did do instead was they said, OK, we'll kind of meet you halfway ish.
We won't allow for multiple inheritance, but we will allow for multiple interfaces.
OK, so let me show you something here.
I'm going to go back to the employee class now.
We converted this employee from an interface, right?
But let me show you something here.
I'm going to put my cursor on the employee word.
I'm going to right click refactor and I'm going to choose to extract an interface.
All right, and so now it's going to allow me to create an interface based on this employee class.
Now I need to give it a name.
Now you'll see some developers call their interfaces something like with a capital I.
I think that's a particularly popular in the darknet world or C-sharp world, for example, that's another
programming language.
So you'll see things like that.
And for right now, I'm going to just use that because I don't feel like spending a lot of time thinking
of a better name for this example interface.
Now I need to also let the ADC know as it's getting ready to create this interface that I would like
it to go ahead and declare the get salary method again, as we had when we first had this guy as an
interface.
So I just checked that and I'm going to click Refactor.
All right.
Interface I employee has been successfully created at this stage idea can analyze usages of employee
and replace them with usages of I employee where possible.
Do you want to proceed?
So what it's telling me is now wherever I am creating instances of classes that implement employee such
as in the main class here, I could go ahead and store those references to those instances in employee,
which is what's currently happening.
Or we could refer to them by their interface.
OK.
So I'm going to say no for right now.
So they're in.
I'm going to make this change manually so you can see what that really means.
I'm going to say no.
All right.
So look at this.
We now have an interface called I employee, and if I jump into that, it looks just like the original
interface we had created before.
OK.
So it's not really doing much for us at this point, but it's also not hurting anything.
All right now, if I jump over to the main class here, we're still storing our employee references
in a variable of type employee.
But now this employee is not an interface.
This is an actual class, right?
But I can do this.
I can refer to the interface version of employee and nothing breaks.
And the reason nothing breaks is because, as you already know, the interface employee does implement
a get salary method, right?
And so I'm not breaking anything here now to further show some examples of this.
I'm going to create one more interface and this will be like just a throwaway dumb interface just to
prove a point.
I'm to say interface, and then I'm going to create an interface and I'm going to call it Apple.
Like it has nothing to do with anything at all.
OK.
All right.
So here's my Apple interface, and now I will go to the programmer class and I'm going to say that yes,
the programmer extends employee, but it also implements Apple.
Look at that, and I can also say that it also implements them and put it in the front here.
I employee karma like so.
So my point here is that classes can only extend one class, but they can implement multiple interfaces.
OK.
So I could have as many interfaces here as as made sense to me for my for my coding.
Now, obviously, this Apple interface doesn't define any methods, and so it's it's really doing nothing
at all.
Sometimes there are reasons to do that.
By the way, if you want to just be able to flag a class as a certain type, for some reason, you can
do that.
It may or may not be the greatest thing to do, but you could do that.
But I am now implementing two interfaces here.
OK, now if I go back over to main, I could.
Do this now.
On the other three subclasses of employee, so I can come over here and I will paste and I'll come over
to the CEO.
And paste and the analyst.
And paced like so.
And then if I go back over to the main class now.
So now watch this.
I could try to refer to this employee as an apple.
But when I do so now, I get an error down here, and the reason is because there is no get salary Method
D defined on the Apple interface, right?
And so now this employee variable here looks like it's an apple.
If that makes sense, right, it looks like it's an apple.
So right now, Apple does not define a get salary method, and so I can't call this OK.
But my point here was to kind of show that you can implement multiple interfaces, but you can only
extend one class.
All right.
So I'm going to put this back to.
I guess just employee for now.
So I think this is going to wrap up what I wanted to show in this lesson, but there's still more,
there's still more to show you.
So I'll see you in the next one.